# Indeed.com Jobs Scraping App

## Overview
Program to scrape and store posted jobs in the United States from  www.indeed.com

Gets the next information from the website:
- original id generated by Indeed;
- job title (`job_title`)
- posting date (`job_date`)
- location  (`job_loc`)
- short description (`job_summary`)
- salary (or salary range) in a list format (`job_salary`)
- url of the job (`job_url`)
- company name (`company_name`)

## Getting Started
1. Install all required packages from requirements.txt.<br/>
`$ pip install -r requirements.txt`
<br/><br/>

## How to use
1. Assign search parameters in the **`parameters.py`**: <br/>
- `positions` should be a list of strings with all positions names or key-words for search. Even if there is one word,
keep it in the list: `positions = ["auditor"]`
2. Run the **`app.py`**<br>
`$ python3 app.py`


## Functionality:
1. Scraping jobs by the key parameters: search key-words
2. Cleaning / formatting data.
3. Each scraping session saves the results as a csv data dump to the *`data_dumps/`* folder.
4. Each step of the scraping is logged into the **`log.txt`** with printing the outcomes in the console.


## Architecture:
1. **`app.py`** - enter point
2. **`main.py`** - the main workflow of the program
3. **`indeed_com_scraper.py`** - scraping functionality module
4. **`dumping.py`** -  data cleaning / formatting module + saving data dumps
5. **`logger.py`** - logging functionality
6. **`parameters.py`** - keeping scraping parameters in separate module for easy access.

Additional:
1. **`db_scheme.py`** or **`db_scheme.sql`** for initial database setup.
2. **`requirements.txt`** required python packages.


## Requirements:
`python 3`
<br><br>
Packages:
- `pandas 1.4.2`
- `requests 2.28.0`
- `beautifulsoup4 4.11.1`








